CPM-155: Add symfony messenger job queues (#14048)
akeneo/pim-community-dev: src/Akeneo/Tool/Bundle/BatchQueueBundle/README.md

# Jobs Queue with Symfony Messenger

## Presentation

The Symfony Messenger component helps applications send and receive messages to/from other applications or via message queues. In our case 
we send the message that tells a job should be launched. A worker receives the message from the queue asynchonously and
executes the job.  

## Transports

Symfony Messenger works with transports that are defined in the configuration. A transport defines where the message will be sent (be careful
if no transport is defined the job is executed synchronously). Different transport can be defined per environment. We can use
doctrine (= a mysql table) or Google Pub/Sub for instance.

## Jobs priority

Some job types can slow down other jobs, either because of their duration or because too jobs are created too often. To improve that

> we create 4 job queues: 

Author: 3

# Jobs Queue with Symfony Messenger

## Presentation

The Symfony Messenger component helps applications send and receive messages to/from other applications or via message queues. In our case 
we send the message that tells a job should be launched. A worker receives the message from the queue asynchronously and
executes the job.  

## Transports

Symfony Messenger works with transports that are defined in the configuration. A transport defines where the message will be sent (be careful

> if no transport is defined the job is executed synchronously). Different transport can be defined per environment. We can use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if no transport is defined then the job is executed synchronously). Various transports can be defined per environment. We can use
```

doctrine (= a mysql table) or Google Pub/Sub for instance.

## Jobs priority

> Some job types can slow down other jobs, either because of their duration or because too jobs are created too often. To improve that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some job types can slow down other jobs, either because of their duration or because too many jobs are created too often. To improve that
```

|                         |                           |                      |                        |
|                         |           Here is message |                      |                        |
|                         | <------------------------ |                      |                        |
|                         |                           |                      |                        |
|                         | Acknowledge message       |                      |                        |
|                         | (GooglePubSub only)       |                      |                        |
|                         | ------------------------> |                      |                        |
|                         |                           |                      |                        |
|                         | Spread message to handler |                      |                        |
|                         | --------------------------+--------------------> |                        |
|                         |                           |                      |                        |

> |                         |                           |                      | Run job (new process)  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|                         |                           |                      | Run job (in  sub-process)  |
```

|  The message is handled |                           |                      |                        |
| <---------------------- |                           |                      |                        |
|                         |                           |                      |                        |
|                         |                           |                      |                        |
| Consume 1 message       |                           |                      |                        |
| ----------------------> |                           |                      |                        |
|                         |                           |                      |                        |
| ...                     |                           |                      |                        |
```
### Why do we ackowledge the message differently with Google PubSub?

Google PubSub has a maximum time to acknowledge a message. By default it's 10 seconds and it can be configured
with the `ackDeadlineSeconds` option (https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/reference/rest/v1/projects.subscriptions/create).

> The maximum we can configured is 10 minutes. If the the message is not acknowledged in time, the message can be delivered again.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The maximum that can be configured is 10 minutes. If the message is not acknowledged in that interval, it can be delivered again.  
```

> But it's not rare a job execution exceeds 10 minutes, and we don't want to receipt twice the same message. We thought about 2 solutions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But it's not rare a job execution exceeds 10 minutes, and we don't want to receive the same message twice. We thought about 2 solutions:
```

- When the job is too long we can extend the acknowledge time by a doing a request (https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/reference/rest/v1/projects.subscriptions/modifyAckDeadline)

> - As soon the message is receipted, we acknowledge the message without waiting the handler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- As soon the message is received, we acknowledge the message without waiting for the handler
```

The first solution is hard to implement, the only advantage is we can retry to execute a failing job. We are not sure we

> want this feature, at least for the moment, so we took the second solution.

Reviewer 2: ### Why do we have an healthcheck date updated regularly?

## History
Initially, the queue was an homemade queue implemented with Mysql.
A daemon (never-ending PHP command) consumed one message at a time. A message corresponds to an Akeneo job to launch. This job is executed in a sub-process. It increase the stability of the daemon because all it pushed all the complexity of a job (ORM, ES, potential memory leaks, etc) inside a sub-process.

- If the daemon fail, it's not an issue: the job updates its status by itself (error, stopped, etc).
- If the job fail, it's not an issue: the daemon can detect that and change the status of the job. This way, it does not stay as started, even if there was an unexpected and unrecoverable issue (such as memory leak).

But there is one missing case. Imagine the daemon is failing for any reason, and after that the job too. There is no safeguard to change the job state.

And here come the healthcheck datetime. Updated every X seconds by the daemon, the health check a job allows to say "the job is still running, everything is fine".

If a job has a status at STARTED and the healthcheck is not updated, it means that:
- the daemon failed and can't change the healthcheck
- the job itself can't change its own status: it probably failed also

So, in this case, despite the status "STARTED" in database, it's considered as failed in the UI for the final user.
 
## Why is it useless when running with docker?
Without docker, f the daemon is killed or failed, the jobs (in sub-processes) are **not** killed.

With docker, if the daemon is killed or failed, as it's the main process, it will stop the contained (and so the sub-process).
In that case (pretty common case), the healthcheck is useless.

Author: @ahocquard Could I add this comment in the readme? Maybe it was the original purpose when you wrote it.. Thanks

Reviewer 2: yep, It was the purpose of my comment, to keep a trace of this thing :)

The first solution is hard to implement, the only advantage is we can retry to execute a failing job. We are not sure we
want this feature, at least for the moment, so we took the second solution.

### Why do we have an healthcheck date updated regularly?

#### History

Initially, the queue was a homemade queue implemented with Mysql.  

> A daemon (never-ending PHP command) consumed one message at a time. A message corresponds to an Akeneo job to launch. This job is executed in a sub-process. It increase the stability of the daemon because all it pushed all the complexity of a job (ORM, ES, potential memory leaks, etc) inside a sub-process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A daemon (never-ending PHP command) consumed one message at a time. A message corresponds to an Akeneo job to launch. This job is executed in a sub-process. It increases the stability of the daemon because it pushed all the complexity of a job (ORM, ES, potential memory leaks, etc) inside a sub-process.
```

- If the daemon fails, it's not an issue: the job updates its status by itself (error, stopped, etc).
- If the job fails, it's not an issue: the daemon can detect that and changes the status of the job. This way, it does not stay as started, even if there was an unexpected and unrecoverable issue (such as memory leak).

But there is one missing case. Imagine the daemon is failing for any reason, and after that the job too. There is no safeguard to change the job state.

And here come the healthcheck datetime. Updated every X seconds by the daemon, the health check a job allows to say "the job is still running, everything is fine".

If a job has a status at STARTED and the healthcheck is not updated, it means that:
- the daemon failed and can't change the healthcheck
- the job itself can't change its own status: it probably failed also

So, in this case, despite the status "STARTED" in database, it's considered as failed in the UI for the final user.

#### Why is it useless when running with docker?

> Without docker, if the daemon is killed or fails, the jobs (in sub-processes) is **not** killed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Without docker, if the daemon is killed or failed, the jobs (in sub-processes) is **not** killed.
```

> With docker, if the daemon is killed or fails, as it's the main process, it will stop the contained (and so the sub-process).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With docker, if the daemon is killed or failed, as it's the main process, it will stop the container (and so the sub-process).
```
